Initial page (#1)
Azure-Samples/ms-identity-javascript-tutorial: README.md

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- javascript
- typescript
products:
- angular
- react
- nodejs
- ms-graph
- microsoft-identity-platform
- azure-active-directory
- azure-active-directory-b2c
- azure-app-services
- azure-storage
- azure-key-vault
description: "Microsoft identity platform & Microsoft Authentication Library for JavaScript Tutorial"
urlFragment: "ms-identity-javascript-tutorial"
---

# Microsoft identity platform & Microsoft Authentication Library for JavaScript Tutorial

> [Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-overview), along with [Azure Active Directory Azure AD](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis) and [Azure Azure Active Directory B2C (Azure AD B2C)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory-b2c/overview) are central to **Azure** cloud ecosystem. This tutorial aims to take you through the fundamentals of modern authentication with JavaScript, using the [Microsoft Authentication Library for JavaScript (MSAL.js)](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-overview), along with [Azure Active Directory](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis) (Azure AD) and [Azure AD B2C](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory-b2c/overview) are central to the **Azure** cloud ecosystem. This tutorial aims to take you through the fundamentals of modern authentication with JavaScript using the [Microsoft Authentication Library for JavaScript](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js) (MSAL.js).
```

> We recommend following the chapters in successive fashion, in your platform of choice (**Vanilla JavaScript**, **Angular**, **React**, **Node**) but code samples are self-contained so feel free to pick samples by topics that you may need at the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend following the chapters in successive order for your platform of choice (**Vanilla JavaScript**, **Angular**, **React**, or **Node**). However, the code samples are self-contained, so feel free to pick samples by topics that you may need at the moment.
```

> :warning: This is a *work in progress*. Come back frequently to discover more samples.

## Prerequisites

> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
> - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download).
> - [VS Code Azure Tools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-node-azure-pack).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- [VS Code Azure Tools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-node-azure-pack)
```

This one is debatable. You typically either terminate all items in a bulleted list with periods, or none of them - the key is consistency. However, you have full sentences only in the last bullet, so really, this is an executive decision on styling that you can decline to take. 😉

- A modern web browser. While **MSAL.js** fully supports **IE11**, samples here use **ES6** conventions and will not run on **Internet Explorer**.

> Please refer to each sample's readme for sample-specific prerequisites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to each sample's README for sample-specific prerequisites.
```

## Recommendations

- [jwt.ms](https://jwt.ms) for inspecting your tokens.
- [Fiddler](https://www.telerik.com/fiddler) for monitoring your network activity and troubleshooting.

> - Following the [Azure AD Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-active-directory-identity/bg-p/Identity) for keeping up-to-date with the latest developments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow the [Azure AD Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-active-directory-identity/bg-p/Identity) to stay up-to-date with the latest developments.
```

> Please refer to each sample's readme for sample-specific recommendations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to each sample's README for sample-specific recommendations.
```

## Contents

| Chapter              | Covers                            |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------|

> | `Authentication`     | id tokens, sign-in, sign-out, single sign-on, national clouds |
> | `Authorization I`    | access tokens, acquiring a token, working with scopes and resources, MS Graph API  |
> | `Authorization II`   | protecting a web API, authorizing users to call a web API, token validation |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Authentication`     | ID tokens, sign-in, sign-out, single sign-on (SSO), national clouds |
| `Authorization I`    | Access tokens, acquiring a token, working with scopes and resources, Microsoft Graph API  |
| `Authorization II`   | Protecting a web API, authorizing users to call a web API, token validation |
```

> <!-- | `Advanced Grants`    | on-behalf-of flow, device code flow, client credentials flow |
> | `Access Control`     | roles, groups, conditional access, overage scenarios |
> | `Deployment`         | multi-tenant (SaaS) applications, managed identity, key vaults, hosting |
> | `Hybrid Identity`    | ADFS, on-prem authentication, migration scenarios, Azure AD Connect | -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- | `Advanced Grants`    | On-behalf-of flow, device code flow, client credentials flow |
| `Access Control`     | Roles, groups, conditional access, overage scenarios |
| `Deployment`         | Multi-tenant (SaaS) applications, managed identities, Key Vault, hosting |
| `Hybrid Identity`    | ADFS, on-prem authentication, migration scenarios, Azure AD Connect | -->
```

## Learning Tracks

### Vanilla JavaScript

#### Azure AD

| Chapter              | Library       | Sample             |
|------------------------|---------------|--------------------|
| `Authentication`             | MSAL.js 2.x   | [Signs-in users](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-javascript-signin) |
| `Authorization I`            | MSAL.js 2.x   | [Call Microsoft Graph API]() |

> | `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your Web API]() |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your web API]() |
```

| `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your Azure Function]() |
| `Authorization II`             | MSAL.js 2.x   | [Call a protected resource]() |

#### Azure AD B2C

| Chapter              | Library       | Sample             |
|------------------------|---------------|--------------------|
| `Authentication`             | MSAL.js 2.x   | [Signs-in users](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-b2c-javascript-signin) |

> | `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your Web API]() |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your web API]() |
```

| `Authorization II`             | MSAL.js 2.x   | [Call a protected resource]() |

### Angular

#### Azure AD

| Chapter              | Library       | Sample             |
|------------------------|---------------|--------------------|
| `Authentication`             | MSAL-Angular   | [Signs-in users](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-javascript-angular-signin) |
| `Authorization I`             | MSAL-Angular   | [Call Microsoft Graph API]() |

> | `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your Web API]() |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your web API]() |
```

| `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your Azure Function]() |
| `Authorization II`             | MSAL-Angular   | [Call a protected resource]() |

#### Azure AD B2C

| Chapter              | Library       | Sample             |
|------------------------|---------------|--------------------|
| `Authentication`             | MSAL-Angular   | [Signs-in users](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-b2c-javascript-angular-signin) |

> | `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your Web API]() |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Authorization II`   | Passport.js | [Protect your web API]() |
```

| `Authorization II`             | MSAL-Angular  | [Call a protected resource]() |

## More information

> - [Microsoft identity platform (Azure Active Directory for developers)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/)
```
